I got you this time!
I'm not letting you
get away again!
[grunt]
I found it!
Direction: 11 o'clock.
Location: 30 meters ahead!
Okay! I'm gonna settle
this thing once and for all!
[grunt]
Gotcha now!
Watch out, Mitsuki!
It's coming for ya!
I'll take it from here.
Calm down now.
It'll be okay.
So lame!
How did we get stuck with
a mission to find a lost cat?
[sigh]
[chattering]
Thank you all
so much for this!
What a relief!
Sometimes this little one
likes to run away and explore.
No worries.
I'm just glad we were able to
find your cat safe and sound!
[sigh]
As much trouble as
that mission was,
it was still boring.
Don't you get it...?
Taking care of those kinds
of problems
is part of our job as genin.
Deal with it!
I know that.
But the only thing we've been
dealing with lately
are minor problems
in the neighborhood.
Like when we removed
that hornets' nest...
Or when we had to calm down
a couple of drunks.
Shouldn't we be getting
better missions?
C'mon, don't you feel
the same way too, Mitsuki
Well, I enjoy doing
all of them.
And I get to do them with you.
That's right.
I always seem to
forget that about you.
Okay! Our next mission's
gonna have to be
something super
more challenging!
Mitsuki, let's go!
‐ All right, then.
‐ Hey, hold on!
What're you‐‐?
Oh, come on!
‐ [chuckle]
‐ (BORUTO) Look,
I'm just saying...
What would it hurt?
One of those
high‐profile missions
would be perfect for us now!
[sigh] There's nothing I can
do for you about that...
Ah, man.
We're not gonna get anywhere
talking to you, Miss Suika.
Let me go talk to
my stupid old man.
Oh! Please, Mr. Konohamaru!
Didn't I already tell you
not to do that?
Lord Seventh is busy,
so your mission orders will
come from the assignment desk.
But don't you see that
we'll never prove ourselves
doing these dumb missions.
They're a complete waste
of our talents.
I find it amazing that
you still don't understand
what a ninja's job really is
in this day and age.
Huh?
Battles used to happen
all the time.
But do you really think
that big, showy fights
are common in a time of peace?
Uh... Well I...
Fighting enemy ninja
on your first mission
probably gave you
the wrong impression.
But missions like that
are actually very rare.
Come on...
No way!
That's like saying we might
as well be handymen.
Don't think about it
like that.
If we can serve the village
by helping people,
then every job
we do is important.
And besides, everyone gets
these types of jobs.
All your classmates are
working on missions
just as low key as the ones
you've been assigned.
So we're not
the only ones then?
(KONOHAMARU) No!
And don't forget that
the time you spend as a genin
is when you really learn
the everyday realities
of the village and the world
by doing ordinary work.
Hmmm...
That again? My dad fed you
that line, didn't he?
Huh?!
Now that we're all clear...
Please run along and take care
of your assigned missions!
I can't take it!
I don't wanna do this stuff.
Maybe I shouldn't have become
a ninja in the first place.
He's such a child.
A complete idiot.
[chattering]
We bring you breaking news.
The case of
the armed robbers who attacked
the Hidden Leaf
Central Department Store
has already been
swiftly resolved.
Rock Lee quickly
stopped them in their tracks
while working alongside
Kiba Inuzuka of
the Leaf Police Force.
Well, actually, I could've
easily handled this one
entirely on my own.
Now, I'll have even more
lady fans.
Metal,
are you watching this?
These are the results of
training each and every day!
Trained muscles will
never ever let you down!
Uh, thank you very much.
That concludes
our live report.
It seems like missions
that are really dangerous
are always settled right away
by someone like
those two guys.
And meanwhile, we're the ones
stuck doing the boring work
so these jonin
get to look good.
other organized
crime rings continues
(BORUTO)
This is so boring...
Unless other people know
what our hard work
is accomplishing,
there's no incentive to do it.
Let's hurry home!
I wanna play this!
I can't wait
to get started!
Wow! What am I doing?!
I gotta get out of here!
(MALE STORE CLERK)
Thank you very much!
[chuckle]
I can't believe
I almost forgot!
The new Kagemasa game
got released today!
Really?
What kind of game is it?
You appear to be very excited
about getting it.
(BORUTO)
"Super Ninja Hero Battle 2"!
You create your own ninja,
and then you make 'em stronger
so you can win battles.
It's a super fun game!
I've been waiting for
like ever for this sequel!
Oh...
The first game was
completely amazing!
I stayed up all night
playing it
and mom got really mad at me.
So, you wanna go play it?
I swear
you're gonna get hooked.
If you teach me how to play,
then I will...
(SARADA)
There you are!
‐ Hm?
[heavy breathing]
I've been looking for you!
Huh?
Well, what's up, Sarada?
Konohamaru Sensei sent
an emergency summons!
Meh. It's probably
just another mission
to look for somebody's
lost dog or cat...
That's not what it's about!
There's a robber
who's barricaded himself
inside a bank!
Bank robber?!
Barricaded?!
Inside an actual bank?!
‐ [screaming]
‐ Don't move, kid!
Didn't you hear me?!
[pained groan]
[pained grunt]
A mission worthy of
my attention!
[cheering]
Yes!
This is it!
My opportunity to shine
has finally arrived!
That's the crime scene?
It's sure different from
what I imagined...
(KOTARO)
Hey!
I've been waiting for you.
Are you guys Team 7?
We sure are.
Who're you, mister?
I'm Kotaro Fuuma of
the Leaf Police Force.
I'm the officer in
charge of this jurisdiction.
Thanks so much for coming!
Uh, sure.
It's nice to see you again,
Captain Kotaro.
Is that you Sarada?!
I don't see you
for a little while,
and suddenly,
you're all grown up!
You know this guy?
Is he for real?
Quiet!
Don't run your big mouth!
Mr. Kotaro is a special jonin
and he's the captain of
the Police Force.
Please! There's no need to
be so formal with me!
That's right!
Haven't members of
the Uchiha Clan
served in the Police Force
for several generations?
Yes.
And I'm hoping Sarada
will also join the Force.
All in good time, of course.
We'll be here
whenever she's ready.
Well, now...
I don't know about that.
Whatever. What's going on
with your suspect?
We need to know
exactly where
this dangerous bad guy
is holed up!
Well, uh...
I was just getting to that...
(HAGURUMA)
Uh‐hm...
Uh...
Uh...? Who's that?
What is it now?
Have you decided
to peacefully surrender?
No way, are you kidding?!
You think I'm fooling around
with this?!
I'm really gonna set off
this bomb!
I'm totally serious!
This isn't a joke!
That's the dangerous bad guy?
I'm not laughing!
All right already.
It's not safe
to wave that thing around.
So... Go ahead and tell us
your list of demands.
Well, I don't uh...
Please stand by
for a moment...
That's not right...
Just hang on!
What's wrong with him?
That's not quite
how I pictured him.
He's a unique bank robber.
Well, now you know what
we're dealing with.
Everybody else
who was in the bank
was safely evacuated
hours ago.
If we weren't brought here
to save the hostages...
then we must be here
to try to
talk somebody out of
killing themselves, right?
That's why the mission
was passed on to us
and not assigned
to a jonin.
Uh...This is not what
I was expecting!
What happened to
the big fight
where we subdue the suspect?
Where's the moment where
I finally get to shine?
(MITSUKI) But there is
still a chance
the bomb could be real.
He's right.
And it's because of
that possibility
that we can't afford
to force his hand.
That's why you were
called in to help us.
Now it makes sense.
You want to try to talk him
out of this?
And what about you?
If you want out,
then I'm perfectly fine
completing this mission
without you.
[chuckle] Of course,
if that's the case,
I'll have to report back
to Sensei
that you weren't any help
at all this time.
And who said
I'm out of anything?
‐ [smirk]
‐ [chuckle]
Ha! I'm gonna come up with
a solution so fast
it'll put those jonin
to shame!
I'm gonna settle this.
[sigh and groan]
Why on earth
did I ever think
this would be a good idea?
What a mess!
But now I've gone
too far to turn back!
And since that's the case,
I'll go out
in a blaze of glory...
(BORUTO) You wanna go out
in a blaze of glory?
Huh?
[panicking gasps]
Hey, just calm down!
I'm not gonna do anything
to you.
The truth of the matter is
we still don't even know
what the hell you want.
I thought we should talk
about it face to face.
Uh...
You see...
Think of me kinda like
a negotiator
for the officer who's
outside.
I'll be your hostage.
[chuckle] Tell me what
you're really doing here?
You're just looking
for your chance
to arrest me, aren't you?
[chuckle]
I don't do things like that.
If you don't trust me...
then go ahead and tie up
my hands or my feet.
Here...
[nervous breaths]
He's really too reckless
to be left in there alone.
Are you worried?
The only thing
I'm worried about
is the safety of the suspect.
(HAGURUMA)
[grunts] Damn it!
This knot...
I just can't get it
tight enough.
[yawn]
Hey...
Want me to hold
that detonator for you
while you try again?
Huh? Yeah!
That would be great,
actually...
Argh!
As if I'd give it to you!
Nice and tight.
No offense, man,
but you're really bad
at this kinda stuff.
Were you actually serious
about robbing the bank?
[grimace]
I mean, you never even got
the safe unlocked...
[emotional breaths]
Let me guess...
The bank employees got away
and now, you're stuck
because you can't open it?
[groaning]
That's really
what happened...?
Yeesh.
You don't seem like
the type of person
who'd wanna
get mixed up in crime,
so why'd you do this?
Well, I uh...
What's your name?
Haguruma...
Listen, Mr. Haguruma,
if you just turn yourself in
they're bound to go
easy on you.
It's stupid to ruin
the rest of your life
because of this.
[scoff]
Really?
I'm gonna ruin
the rest of my life?
Well, it's already ruined.
Huh?
You see, I was fired from
my job two months ago.
And it's all because my boss
went and accused me
of something I didn't even do.
What do you mean by that?
(HAGURUMA) I used to be
a programmer
for a video game company.
I worked behind the scenes
and had really intense hours.
But the work was fulfilling...
and I was good at it.
My problems started during
the last programming project
I was assigned to.
The team leader gave me
a schedule
that seemed impossible.
But I was ordered to meet it,
no matter what.
How'd it go?
Were you able to
finish the game in time?
(HAGURUMA) [chuckle]
Yeah, somehow.
[gasp]
(HAGURUMA) But several
of my coworkers
got sick from exhaustion
'cause of the work load.
See, we just couldn't take
the team leader's abuse
any longer
and we were all planning to
file an appeal against him.
But then...
The team leader
got wind of it.
He accused me of selling
company secrets
to a rival company
and made up "proof"
to back it up.
So I was fired.
Wow, that's just awful!
I became an example
for the other guys
who opposed him.
Everyone immediately stopped
complaining and kept working.
How can something like
that be allowed to happen?!
That's ridiculous
and totally unfair!
Maybe it's hard for you
to understand
at this point in your life.
But these things happen a lot
in the adult world.
Especially in the times
we're living in.
(SARADA)
So...
Why do you feel
the suspect in the bank
might be
a disgruntled employee?
Well...
after the Great Ninja War,
there was expansive
development in the world.
Quality of life
generally improved,
but the gap between the rich
and the poor expanded as well.
After that,
I couldn't get any work.
No other company was gonna
think about hiring me
once they knew I was "fired"
for leaking company secrets...
I got sick from
the shock of it all,
and went into debt to pay
for my medical expenses.
I borrowed money
from loan sharks,
and then, the debt I owed
them ballooned.
‐ [sobbing]
‐ I get it.
I understand
how your situation
made you this desperate.
Damn it all!
I really want to beat up
that rotten ol' boss of yours!
[chuckle] You're that angry
about what happened to me?
I appreciate it.
But I'm still holding onto
another grudge.
What type of grudge
are you talking about?
I was pretty happy at my job.
I enjoyed working
behind the scenes
and programming games.
I just wanted the people
who played them
to enjoy them
as much as I did.
But then...
I realized no one
knew how hard I had worked,
or that I ended up like this.
Once I realized that,
then nothing mattered anymore,
you know?
[gasp]
Unless other people
know what our hard work
is accomplishing,
there's no incentive
to do it.
[sigh]
And that's why I pretended
that I was a bank robber...
But I'm done with that.
Uh... What do you mean?
I feel a lot better now.
I hadn't told anyone
about all that stuff.
Until now.
Really, Mr. Haguruma?
You took the time to listen
to this old fool...
So I don't wanna drag you
any further into this mess.
Hey wait...
You're not gonna‐‐!
(HAGURUMA)
I just activated the bomb.
This place will blow
in five minutes.
[gasp]
But the last thing
I want to do
is for you to get hurt
because of me.
So I'm going to go barricade
myself behind these doors.
I'll blow myself up
with a big bang
as a final protest to
my damned boss.
Hey...wait!
Look, there's gotta be
a better‐‐
Whoa!
(HAGURUMA) It's perfect
since today's the release date
of my game.
This might even
make the news...
Huh?
The last game I worked on
came out today.
You probably don't know it,
but it's Super Ninja‐‐
Super Ninja Hero Battle 2?!
You kidding?!
Of course, I know it!
Look for yourself...
in my jacket pocket!
[grunt]
This is it...
My game!
(BORUTO)
Told ya!
You're a...
You're a fan of my game?
Really?
I played the first one
for hours and hours,
until I cleared
every mission.
And I plan to play
this second one
all the way to the end, too!
This is the first time...
anyone's ever said something
like that to me personally.
(BORUTO) I'll say it
as many times as you want!
Hey!
I'll tell you
what I think about Part 2
after I finish playing it.
But I won't be able to do that
if you're not here!
[emotional breath]
Yeah, you're right.
I guess not.
I wouldn't want to
miss hearing
what you thought about it.
Do we have a deal?
Whaddya say?
Mm‐hm.
I've decided
I'm not gonna kill myself.
[chuckle]
Now that's more like it!
Hey, you know,
all of a sudden...
This thing's kinda
freaking me out.
No kidding! Just hurry up
and turn it off!
Sure.
All I have to do is
press this button twice...
Ah, crap...
Why isn't it working?
[grunt]
Well, that's weird.
Is the connection bad?
Is there some glitch in
the program?!
A‐At this rate...
That's bad!
Can't you take the belt off?!
[grunt]
I purposely made the device
really hard to take off.
I wasn't expecting to
change my mind!
[grunt]
I got it!
Mr. Haguruma...
You've gotta untie my hands
right now!
[grunt]
All right!
Shadow Clone Jutsu!
What?!
That detonator runs
on electricity, right?
‐ (HAGURUMA) Yeah.
‐ Okay...
You're gonna feel
a little jolt.
Apologies in advance!
‐ Haaa!
‐ Lightning Style!
No sign of Boruto.
What's going on?
Maybe the suspect
won't cooperate.
He said he would take
the detonator
the moment he had a chance...
Maybe the mission
was too difficult
to complete by himself.
[gasp]
(KOTARO)
Hang on a second!
(MITSUKI) Was that...
Lightning Style?
[heavy breaths]
[gasp]
[chuckle]
Boruto!
Another mission accomplished.
We're all okay!
(KOTARO)
Well done!
And thanks to
your excellent work,
no one was hurt!
[chuckle]
But now what?
Mr. Haguruma...
We now believe he was under
such extreme mental stress
that he couldn't
make sound decisions.
Furthermore...after we
inspected the explosive...
we discovered that it was
just a worthless appliance
that couldn't have caused
any fatalities.
Huh?! Wait, what the hell?!
And after causing
all that panic...
[chuckling]
Considering the circumstances,
and his sincere regret
for his actions...
I believe his punishment
probably won't be too severe.
[relieved sigh]
You should be proud
of yourself.
You did a good job.
All right!
(MITSUKI)
But...
Huh?
Regardless... What is he
supposed to do now?
Yeah. I thought of that.
(DENKI) Hello?
How can I help you?
Oh! Hey, Boruto!
So tell me how
your mission went?
Huh?
Sure, let me know if there's
anything I can do...
[sigh]
If that's all you need,
then I think I can help you.
The Kaminarimon Company
is always looking to hire
exceptional people!
Okay, so we've made
our report.
Time for me to go home,
play my game and relax!
That sounds like fun.
And I have to be ready
to go tomorrow,
no matter what the request,
ya know?
You what‐‐?!
What caused
the change of heart?
Well... How do I put it...?
Even if there's no glory
in a job,
chances are it still
has value for someone.
(SARADA) Did I actually
hear you say that?
I think I'm gonna see
pigs fly soon.
What was that?!
Got a problem?
Someone told the suspect
he should barricade himself
in the bank?
Is that really
what you're saying?
(KOTARO)
Yes.
It eventually came out while
we were interrogating him.
I wondered why
someone like him...
someone so timid would try
to pull off something so bold.
At first, I was gonna kill
myself without telling anyone.
But just as I was about to
jump in front of a train...
a stranger walked up to me.
And that's the person
who gave him the idea
to barricade himself?
Exactly. He told him
where security was lax
and even
the best time to do it...
But who would do such
a crazy thing?
(SECURITY NINJA)
Excuse me.
Yeah, what is it?
[whispers]
No way!
(KONOHAMARU) Looks like
that case you guys solved...
was just a well‐planned
diversion to distract us.
(BORUTO)
Oh no! Damn!
(KOTARO)
It's a group of guys
who call themselves
"noble thieves."
(BORUTO)
The Byakuya Gang?
They've been active
in several other villages
all over the place.
They're anonymous.
(BORUTO) Next time on Boruto:
Naruto Next Generations:
"The Byakuya Gang Surfaces!"
Damn Byakuya Gang!
I'm gonna get those guys
for sure!